Formula Names: zhi gan cao tang, prepared licorice decoction, Honey- fried Licorice Decoction, 炙甘草湯


zhi gan cao tang is also known as:
Prepared Licorice Decoction, Baked or Roasted Licorice Combination or, Fu Mai Tang (Restore the Pulse Decoction).

zhi gan cao tang contains the following herbs:
Herb Names: gan cao, Licorice Root, Baked Licorice Root, Ural Licorice Root, 甘草, radix glycyrrhizae, Radix Glycyrrhizae Radix Glycyrrhizae Preparata (Zhi Gan Cao)
Category: Herbs that Tonify Qi, 
Properties: Sweet - taste, Warm (dry-fried) (Zhi Gan Cao) - temperature, Neutral raw Gan Cao - temperature, Heart - channels, Lung - channels, Spleen - channels, Stomach - channels, (Yang Wei) - channels, All twelve channels - channels

Herb Names: ren shen, Ginseng Root, Asian Ginseng Root, Panax, 人參, radix ginseng, Radix Ginseng
Category: Herbs that tonify Qi, 
Properties: Sweet - taste, Slightly Bitter - taste, Slightly Warm - temperature, Lung - channels, Spleen - channels

Herb Names: dang shen, Codonopsis Root, Bonnet Bellflower, Downy Bellflower Root, 党参, radix codonopsis, Radix Codonopsis
Category: Herbs that Tonify Qi, 
Properties: Sweet - taste, Neutral - temperature, Lung - channels, Spleen - channels

Herb Names: gui zhi, Cinnamon Twig, Cassia Twig, 桂枝, ramulus cinnamomi, Ramulus Cinnamomi
Category: Herbs that Release the Exterior, 
Properties: Acrid - taste, Sweet - taste, Warm - temperature, Heart - channels, Lung - channels, Urinary Bladder - channels, (Kidney) - channels, Liver - channels

Herb Names: sheng di huang, Rehmannia Root, Chinese Foxglove Root, 生地黃, radix rehmanniae, Radix Rehmanniae
Category: Herbs that Clean Heat and Purge Fire, 
Properties: Sweet - taste, Bitter - taste, Cold - temperature, Heart - channels, Kidney - channels, Liver - channels

Herb Names: mai men dong, Ophiopogon Tuber, Creeping Lily-Turf Root, Dwarf Lily-Turf Root, 麦门冬, radix ophiopogonis, Radix Ophiopogonis Tuber Ophiopogonis
Category: Herbs that Tonify Yin, 
Properties: Sweet - taste, Slightly Bitter - taste, Slightly Cold - temperature, Cool - temperature, Heart - channels, Lung - channels, Stomach - channels, Spleen - channels

Herb Names: e jiao, Ass-Hide Glue, Donkey-Hide Gelatin, Gelatin, 阿膠, colla corii asini, Colla Corii Asini Gelatinum Corii Asini Equus
Category: Herbs that Tonify Blood, 
Properties: Sweet - taste, Neutral - temperature, Kidney - channels, Liver - channels, Lung - channels

Herb Names: huo ma ren, Hemp Seeds, Cannabis Seeds, Linum &#xA0;, Marijuana Seeds, 火麻仁, semen cannabis, Semen Cannabis
Category: Downward Draining Herbs, 
Properties: Sweet - taste, Neutral - temperature, Large Intestine - channels, Spleen - channels, Stomach - channels

Herb Names: sheng jiang, Fresh Ginger Rhizome, 生姜, rhizoma zingiberis recens, Rhizoma Zingiberis Recens
Category: Herbs that Release the Exterior, 
Properties: Acrid - taste, Slightly Warm - temperature, Warm - temperature, Lung - channels, Spleen - channels, Stomach - channels

Herb Names: da zao, Jujube, Jujube Berry, Chinese Date, Zizyphus, Black Date, 大枣, fructus jujube, Fructus Jujube
Category: Herbs that Tonify the Qi, 
Properties: Sweet - taste, Warm - temperature, Neutral - temperature, Spleen - channels, Stomach - channels


zhi gan cao tang has herbs that take the following actions:
gan cao at dosage 3-12g: Tonifies the Spleen, augments Qi and nourishes the Heart.
gan cao at dosage 3-12g: With Ren Shen, relieves palpitations and anxiety.
gan cao at dosage 3-12g: With Da Zao and Ren Shen, tonifies Spleen and Stomach Qi.
gan cao at dosage 3-12g: With Ren Shen, Gui Zhi, Sheng Di Huang and E Jiao, for Heart Qi and Blood Deficiency with an irregular heart beat and palpitations.
ren shen at dosage 3-6g: Calms the Shen, strongly tonifies Yuan Qi and tonifies the Heart.
dang shen at dosage 6-18g: (Tonifies the Middle Jiao and augments Qi - may substitute for Ren Shen.)
dang shen at dosage 6-18g: (With Zhi Gan Cao, for anorexia, fatigue and loose stools due to Spleen Deficiency and palpitations due to Heart Qi Deficiency.)
gui zhi at dosage 3-10g: Assists the Heart Yang and warms and facilitates the flow of Yang Qi in the chest.
gui zhi at dosage 3-10g: With Ren Shen, strongly unblocks Heart Qi.
gui zhi at dosage 3-10g: With Zhi Gan Cao, for palpitations and shortness of breath due to injured Yang of the chest.
gui zhi at dosage 3-10g: With Zhi Gan Cao, Ren Shen and E Jiao, for palpitations and intermittent pulse due to Heart Yin and Yang Deficiency.
sheng di huang at dosage 6-48g: Clears Heat, cools Heart Fire and nourishes Blood and Heart Yin.
sheng di huang at dosage 6-48g: With E Jiao for coughing, hematemesis, epistaxis, and uterine hemorrhage due to Heat from Deficiency.
mai men dong at dosage 6-10g: Moistens Stomach and Lung Dryness, moistens the Intestines clears the Heart and eliminates irritability.
mai men dong at dosage 6-10g: With Sheng Di Huang, for hematemesis or epistaxis due to Yin Deficiency with Excess Heat.
e jiao at dosage 2-10g: Enriches Yin, nourishes the Blood and moistens Dryness.
huo ma ren at dosage 3-20g: Nourishes Yin and moistens Intestines.
huo ma ren at dosage 3-20g: With Sheng Di Huang and Mai Men Dong, for Yin Deficiency with constipation.
sheng jiang at dosage 3-9g: Normalizes the flow of Qi at the center and warms the Middle.
sheng jiang at dosage 3-9g: With Da Zao, regulates Ying and Wei.
sheng jiang at dosage 3-9g: With Gui Zhi, warms and dispels thin mucus in the Stomach with nausea, hiccup, Stomach pain, acid reflux or vomiting of clear fluid.
da zao at dosage 3-6g: Benefits the Spleen, nourishes the Heart, nourishes Blood, calms the Shen and moderates and harmonizes the harsh properties of other herbs.
da zao at dosage 3-6g: With Zhi Gan Cao and Ren Shen, tonifies Spleen and Stomach Qi.
da zao at dosage 3-6g: With Sheng Jiang, enhances the effect of Blood tonics by facilitating digestion and absorption.

zhi gan cao tang has the following actions:
Augments Qi, Nourishes Blood, Enriches Yin, Restores the Pulse

zhi gan cao tang treats the following syndromes:
Heart Qi Deficiency, Qi, Blood and Yin Deficiency due to worry and emotional excess injuring Heart and Spleen, Irregular pulses (knotted and intermittent) due to Yang Deficiency and Yin Deficiency, Generalized numbness due to Exhaustion of Ying and Wei, Lung atrophy due to Yin Deficiency

zhi gan cao tang treats the following conditions:
Supraventricular arrhythmia, Rheumatic Heart disease, Mitral stenosis, Mitral valve prolapse, Hyperthyroidism, Pulmonary tuberculosis, Emphysema, Neurasthenia, Hyperpnea, Atrial fibrillation, cirrhosis of the Liver, Hyperactivity of the sympathetic nervous system, Hepatitis C, Anxiety, Cough, Bronchial asthma, Thromboangitis obliterans, Neurosis, Weakness, Spontaneous perspiration, Night sweats, Constipation, Forgetfulness, Atrial flutter, Premature ventricular contractions, Hypertension, Hypotension, Arteriosclerosis, Endocarditis, Viral myocarditis, Coronary artery disease, Postpartum fever, Anemia, Basedow’s disease, Sick sinus syndrome, Angina pectoris, Congestive Heart failure, Palpitations, Cardiac arrhythmia, Insomnia, Cor pulmonare, COPD, AIDS/HIV, Fatigue, Dyspnea, Lupus erythematosis

zhi gan cao tang has the following contraindications:
Contraindicated for those with Heat from Yin Deficiency., Contraindicated for those with severe diarrhea

zhi gan cao tang has the following interactions:


zhi gan cao tang has the following notes:
This is historically considered the best formula to treat irregular heart beat characterized by a knotted pulse (slow and regularly irregular).and an intermittent pulse Irregularly irregular).

Objective Signs: Pulse Knotted or Intermittent or Minute, forceless and Deficient or Thready and rapid, Tongue Pale and shiny or Red, Tongue Coat Thin and white or None

zhi gan cao tang treats the following symptoms:
Palpitations, Fatigue, Anxiety, Irritability, Insomnia, Emaciation, Shortness of breath, Constipation, Dry mouth and throat, Numbness, Dry cough, Cough with little or no sputum, Cough with blood streaked sputum, Spontaneous perspiration, Night sweats, Five sole Heat due to stress, Early menses, Restlessness, Dry tongue, Pale copious menstrual flow, Weakness, Memory loss, Excess dreams, Fright, Tired body, Dry, hard stool, Coarse skin, Dry throat, A skinny appearance

with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for Lung atrophy:
gui zhi + Less or omit Ram Cinnamomi
sheng jiang + Less or omit Rz. Zingiberis
+ Gecko
+ Sm. Stemonae


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for chest pain and discomfort:
+ Rx. Salviae Miltiorrhizae
+ Sm. Persicae


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for insomnia:
huo ma ren - Sm. Cannabis
+ Sm. Zizyphi Spinosae
+ Sm. Platycladi
+ Fossilia Dentis Mastodi
+ Magnetitum


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for severe Lung Yin Deficiency:
gui zhi - Ram Cinnamomi
sheng jiang - Rz. Zingiberis
+ Bul. Lily
+ Rx. Glehniae


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for severe palpitations:
+ Magnetitum
+ Cinnabaris


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for nosebleed due to Yin Deficiency:
sheng di huang + More Rx. Rehmanniae
mai men dong + Tub. Ophiopogonis
+ Rx. Scutellariae
+ Rz. Coptidis


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for Qi Deficiency:
+ Rx. Astragali


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for irritability and fright:
+ Rx. Astragali
+ Fr. Schisandrae


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for Yang Deficiency:
zhi fu zi + Rx. Aconiti Lateralis Preparata


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for generalized fatigue and Deficiency:
+ Rx. Asparagi
+ Rx. Rehmanniae Preparata


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for a poor appetite:
+ Per. Citri Reticulatae
+ Rz. Pinelliae Preparatum


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for cough due to Lung atrophy:
+ Rx. Platycodi
+ Fr. Aurantii Immaturus


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for a feeling of chest congestion:
+ Poria
+ Sm. Armeniacae


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for edema:
+ Poria
+ Sm. Plantaginis
gan cao + Less Rx. Glycyrrhizae Preparata


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for nausea and vomiting:


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for arrhythmias:
+ Sm. Zizyphi Spinosae
+ Sm. Platycladi


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for hepatitis C due to Kidney and Liver Yin Deficiency:
huo ma ren - Sm. Cannabis
ren shen - Rx. Ginseng
gui zhi - Ram. Cinnamomi
sheng di huang - Rx. Rehmanniae
sheng jiang - Rz. Zingiberis Recens
- Rx. Paeoniae Alba
+ Plastrum Testudinis
+ Carapax Trionycis
+ Concha Ostreae


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for angina pectoris:
sheng jiang - Rz. Zingiberis Recens
+ Plastrum Testudinis
+ Fr. Schisandrae
+ Caulis Spatholobi


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for coronary Heart disease with arrhythmia and palpitations:
ren shen - Rx. Ginseng
dang shen + 15g Rx. Codonopsis
huo ma ren - Sm. Cannabis
sheng jiang - Rz. Zingiberis Recens
da zao - Fr. Jujube
+ 15g Rx. Salviae Miltiorrhizae
+ 2g Succinum
+ 15g Rx. Angelicae Sinensis
zhi fu zi + 5g Rx Aconiti Lateralis Preparata


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for Spleen Yin Deficiency:
gui zhi - Ram. Cinnamomi
+ Rx. Paeoniae Alba


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for palpitations with severely deficient Heart Blood:
+ 9g Bul. Allii
+ 30-50g Rx. Rehmanniae Preparata
+ 15g Rx. Paeoniae Alba
e jiao + 15g Colla Corii Asini


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for palpitations with Liver Heat:
+ 9g Fr. Gardeniae
+ 6g Rx. Bupleuri


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for palpitations with abdominal and epigastric fullness, anorexia and a greasy or glossy tongue coat:
+ 10g Rz. Zingiberis Preparatum
+ 9g Sm. Platycladi
+ 10g Per. Citri Reticulatae


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for palpitations with severe insomnia:
+ 6g Fr. Schisandrae
+ 30g Caulis Polygoni Multiflori
+ 9g Cx. Albizziae
+ 10g Dens Draconis
+ 30g Concha Ostreae


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for palpitations with poor concentration and a poor memory:
+ 6g Rz. Acori Tatarinowii


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for palpitations:
+ 9g wine-fried Rx. Angelicae Sinensis
+ 9g stir-fried Sm. Zizyphi Spinosae


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for palpitations due to Blood and Yang Deficiency:
zhi fu zi + 6g Rx. Aconiti Lateralis Preparata


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for lupus erythematosis with spontaneous perspiration:
sheng di huang - Rx. Rehmanniae
huo ma ren - Sm. Cannabis


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for lupus erythematosis with spontaneous perspiration and palpitations or arrhythmia:
sheng di huang - Rx. Rehmanniae
huo ma ren - Sm. Cannabis
+ 12g Sm. Zizyphi Spinosae
+ 9g Magnetitum


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for lupus erythematosis with spontaneous perspiration and constipation with dry, bound stools:
sheng di huang - Rx. Rehmanniae


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for lupus erythematosis with spontaneous perspiration and Blood Stagnation with chest pain:
e jiao - Colla Corii Asini
huo ma ren - Sm. Cannabis
sheng di huang - Rx. Rehmanniae
+ 9g Sm. Persicae
+ 9g Rx. Salviae Miltiorrhizae


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for sick sinus syndrome:
+ 30g Rx. Astragali
+30g Rz. Polygonati Odorati
+ 12g Sm. Sesame Nigrum
+ 10g Fr. Schisandrae


with the following modifications zhi gan cao tang can be modified for sick sinus syndrome with Blood Stagnation:
e jiao - Colla Corii Asini
huo ma ren - Sm. Cannabis
+ 30g Rx. Astragali
+30g Rz. Polygonati Odorati
+ 12g Sm. Sesame Nigrum
+ 10g Fr. Schisandrae

